Welcome, in this video, we're going to push up our tags to GitHub.
I'm currently in my terminal application on my local system, and I'm within the
website Git repository on the develop branch in a clean working directory.
In a previous video, we set up a couple of lightweight tags
and three annotated tags on our local Git repository.
If I flip over to GitHub, in this case I'm logged into my GitHub account
and I'm on the corresponding website GitHub repository. I'm also on the develop branch,
and there currently are no tags associated with this repository.
I can tell that, because if I go to the releases tab,
I see there are zero and this icon shows tags.
In GitHub, releases and tags are nearly synonymous. If I click on "releases",
it defaults to the releases tab and I don't have any releases. If I flip over to the "Tags" tab,
it also tells me there are no tag here, but it calls them releases.
There is a minor distinction between the two, and we'll get into that later.
For now, let's return back to the terminal.
Before we work with our remote repository, let's make sure we've received
all the updates from GitHub before moving forward: "git pull".
Great, everything’s up-to-date, so now we can keep going.
Now, to send all our commits that we currently have
on our local repository back up to GitHub, type "git push".
Great, in this case, everything's up-to-date; that means that all the commits
on our local side are also reflected on the remote side.
What you'll notice is that, by default, tags are not sent to GitHub
using the standard "git push" command. Since we just issued the "git push" command,
we can go back over to GitHub, on the tags page, and refresh.
We still don't have any tags here. Return to your terminal,
and now we need to use the "git push" command, specifying the tags we want to push.
Type "git push origin", which is what points to GitHub; space; and then the tag name.
Once you press enter, GitHub will push the tag,
and you'll know that because GitHub will confirm
with a response saying that it pushed a new tag, "stable", up to "stable".
Let's go see this on GitHub. Once on GitHub, and on the tags page,
just refresh your browser. Now we have a new tag named stable on GitHub,
and we see the commit id that it is associated with.
We also have a couple of options for downloading the source code
associated with this Git repository at this point in time;
we have a zip file, and we have a tarball.
Now, let's return back to our terminal, and we just sent one tag to GitHub.
And, we could keep doing that with all our other tags;
however, we have several tags and I really want all of them up on GitHub.
To push up all tags to GitHub, I can specify the "--tags" option.
Type "git push --tags", now press enter.
Git will push the rest of our tags that we have
in our local repository up to GitHub. Let's check it out on GitHub.
Return to the tags page on GitHub, and then refresh your browser.
Now we see all five tags that are listed on the tags page.
On the tags page, you'll also notice that there's a "..." next to each of the tags.
For the lightweight tags, if you expand out the "...",
the message here will be the commit message associated with the commit id.
For annotated tags, when you expand out the "...",
you'll have the specific tag message associated with that tag.